feat: Add Bitbucket integration V1 PUL-1364 (#160)
codacy/pulse-user-docs: docs/one-click-integrations/bitbucket-integration.md

<!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->Pulse integrates with Bitbucket Cloud to receive data about changes and deployments, necessary to calculate the metrics:

-   [Lead time for changes](../metrics/accelerate.md#lead-time-for-changes)

-   [Deployment frequency](../metrics/accelerate.md#deployment-frequency)

## Setting up the Bitbucket integration

!!! note
    -   The Bitbucket integration connects to a specific [workspace](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/what-is-a-workspace/). You must be the **owner** of that Bitbucket workspace to proceed with the integration setup.
    -   [See below](#bb-permissions) the permissions that Pulse requires from your Bitbucket account.  

To set up the Bitbucket integration:

1.  On Pulse, [expand **Integrations** and select **Bitbucket**](https://app.pulse.codacy.com/integrations/bitbucket){: target="_blank"}.

1.  Click **Install Bitbucket App**.

    ![Installing the Pulse Bitbucket App](images/bb-installing.png)

> 1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to and confirm with **Complete setup**. You can only select a workspace where you have owner permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to and click **Complete setup** to confirm. You can only select a workspace where you have owner permissions.
```

Reviewer 2: OK, thanks! I updated as suggested and cropped the screenshots to match the dimensions of the GitHub ones.

>     ![Installing the Pulse Bitbucket App](images/bb-installing.png)
> 
> 1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to and click **Complete setup** to confirm. You can only select a workspace where you have owner permissions.
> 
>     ![Choosing the Bitbucket workspace](images/bb-workspace.png)
> 
> 1.  Wait until you get a confirmation that Pulse successfully connected the integration to Bitbucket.
> 
>     ![Pulse Bitbucket integration set up successfully](images/bb-ok.png)

Reviewer: This is more like a note than anything else. :spiral_notepad:

I realize that @claudiacarpinteiro probably adapted the naming of the screenshots from the GitHub integration ones. In the long run, it's better to have more explicit file names to avoid "second-guessing" and make maintenance easier:

```suggestion
    ![Installing the Pulse Bitbucket App](images/bitbucket-installing.png)

1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to and click **Complete setup** to confirm. You can only select a workspace where you have owner permissions.

    ![Choosing the Bitbucket workspace](images/bitbucket-workspace.png)

1.  Wait until you get a confirmation that Pulse successfully connected the integration to Bitbucket.

    ![Pulse Bitbucket integration set up successfully](images/bitbucket-ok.png)
```

We should also update the names of the GitHub integration later when we refresh them. :+1:

Reviewer 2: OK, updated

-   [Lead time for changes](../metrics/accelerate.md#lead-time-for-changes)

-   [Deployment frequency](../metrics/accelerate.md#deployment-frequency)

## Setting up the Bitbucket integration

!!! note
    -   The Bitbucket integration connects to a specific [workspace](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/what-is-a-workspace/). You must be the **owner** of that Bitbucket workspace to proceed with the integration setup.
    -   [See below](#bb-permissions) the permissions that Pulse requires from your Bitbucket account.  

To set up the Bitbucket integration:

1.  On Pulse, [expand **Integrations** and select **Bitbucket**](https://app.pulse.codacy.com/integrations/bitbucket){: target="_blank"}.

1.  Click **Install Bitbucket App** and follow the instructions on the Bitbucket UI to install the app on your account.

    ![Installing the Pulse Bitbucket App](images/bb-installing.png)

1.  Wait until you get a confirmation that Pulse successfully connected the integration to Bitbucket.

    ![Pulse Bitbucket integration set up successfully](images/bb-ok.png)

    If there was an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).

> 1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration. You will only be able to select a workspace that you are the owner.

Reviewer 2: A fragment is missing here:
```suggestion
1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to. You will only be able to select a workspace that you are the owner.
```
Although it reads a bit clunky. We may also want to consider: `Choose the workspace that you want to connect to.` or `Choose the workspace that you want to integrate with.`, depending on which one makes more sense.

Author: I prefer to keep the "owner" to match Bitbucket terminology. Also, I'll use "connect the integration to", to be consistent with the UI (on the UI we have "To connect to a specific workspace you must have owner permissions").

So, to keep the sentence consistent with the UI, I'll go with:
"Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to. You can only select a workspace where you have owner permissions."
(I'll do the update manually.)

Author: Updated!

    ![Choosing the Bitbucket workspace](images/bb-workspace.png)

1.  Click **Complete setup**.

>     If there was an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).

Reviewer 2: @codacy/techwriters We should decide on verb tenses at some point.

The MS style guide suggests [using to the present tense](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/grammar/verbs#verb-tense) for readability.

```suggestion
    If there is an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).
```

## Automatic deployment detection using merged pull requests {: id="deployment-detection-merged-pr"}

!!! note

>     <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->Pulse will use your merged pull requests to automatically detect your deployments. Other strategies to detect deployments will be available with a future version of Pulse.

Reviewer 2: Same here. We should default to the present tense. If we use the future tense, users may incorrectly understand that this feature is not yet ready.

```suggestion
    <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->Pulse uses your merged pull requests to automatically detect your deployments. Other strategies to detect deployments will be available with a future version of Pulse.
```

-   Pulse considers a deployment every merged pull request that **targets the default branch** of the repository.
-   The deployment date is the timestamp when the corresponding pull request is merged.

> -   The set of changes in a deployment is the list of commits in the corresponding pull request. Pulse correctly tracks your changes even if you [squash or fast-forward the commits when merging the pull request](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies), since Pulse processes all the original commits before any changes to the Git history.

Reviewer 3: If 'Squash and merge' is used for Bitbucket, Pulse will not produce accurate accelerate metrics (the only metrics available for V1).

We might be able to overcome this but we don't have time to investigate and implement it for V1, so it will be left for later (see https://codacy.atlassian.net/browse/PUL-1525).

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/codacy/pulse-user-docs/pull/160#discussion_r1053142215

-   Pulse associates all the Bitbucket user groups of the author of a merged pull request with the corresponding deployment, excluding the user groups with less than two members. Pulse only takes the changes to Bitbucket user groups into account on pull requests merged after those changes.

## Collected data

The table below lists the data that the Bitbucket integration collects from your Bitbucket workspace, together with:

-   The mapping between the data collected from Bitbucket and the [Pulse data model](https://ingestion.pulse.codacy.com/v1/api-docs#tocs_event)

> -   The metrics that Pulse calculates from the data to display on the dashboards

Reviewer 2: If I understood correctly, I believe rewording the sentence may improve readability. Something like:
```suggestion
-   The metrics that Pulse displays on the dashboards, calculated using the collected data
```

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th><strong>Data collected from Bitbucket</strong></th>
<th><strong>Mapping to Pulse data model</strong></th>
<th><strong>Used in</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
    <td>Pull request commits</td>
    <td>
        <p>Changes:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><code>change_id</code>: commit UUID</li>
            <li><code>time_created</code>: commit author date<sup><a href="#commit-author-date">1</a></sup></li>
            <li><code>system</code>: repository name</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>Lead time for changes on the <a href="../../metrics/accelerate/">Accelerate Overview dashboard</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>Pull requests</td>
    <td>
        <p>Deployments:</p>
        <ul>

>             <li><code>deploy_id</code>: pull request ID</li>

Reviewer 3: This is a bit different from GH. Since there is no unique ID for a pull request in BB, we use the pull request number (unique within a repository) and the timestamp of when the PR is merged.

Not sure if it's worth going into too much detail.

Reviewer 2: We may just update the wording to be more generic, such as `unique pull request identifier`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            <li><code>deploy_id</code>: unique pull request identifier</li>
```

            <li><code>system</code>: repository name</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>Deployment frequency and Change failure rate on the <a href="../../metrics/accelerate/">Accelerate Overview dashboard</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>User groups</td>
    <td>
        <p>Deployments:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><code>teams</code>: Bitbucket user groups of the author of a deployment<sup><a href="#deployment-teams">2</a></sup></li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>Filters the <a href="../../metrics/accelerate/">Accelerate Overview dashboard</a> by the contributions made by the team</td>
</tr>
</table>

<sup><span id="commit-author-date">1</span></sup>: Pulse uses the commit author's date since it is more accurate. The committer date can be changed (e.g.: fast-forward) and stop reflecting the real creation date of the change.

> <sup><span id="deployment-teams">2</span></sup>: Adding a new user group or changing the composition of a user group on Bitbucket only affects new data from that moment onwards and doesn't have an immediate impact on the dashboards. Also, deleted user groups on Bitbucket will continue to show in Pulse.

Reviewer 2: This one is a bit more debatable, but in the spirit of readability and clarity about this being a current feature, we may want to use the present tense here as well.

```suggestion
<sup><span id="deployment-teams">2</span></sup>: Adding a new user group or changing the composition of a user group on Bitbucket only affects new data from that moment onwards and doesn't have an immediate impact on the dashboards. Also, deleted user groups on Bitbucket are still visible in Pulse.
```

    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>pullrequest</code></td>
      <td>Pulse retrieves pull request information to calculate several metrics presented on the dashboards. <a href="#collected-data">See the details here.</a></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>webhook</code></td>
      <td>Pulse creates webhooks to track new or deleted workspaces.
      <br/>Pulse creates webhooks subscribed to the following events as a trigger to gather the corresponding data in real time:
      <ul>
        <li><code>pullrequest:created</code>: pull requests creation</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:updated</code>: pull requests edition</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:fulfilled</code>: pull requests merge</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:rejected</code>: pull requests decline</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:approved</code>: pull requests approval</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:unapproved</code>: deletion of pull requests approval</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:changes_request_created</code>: pull requests change request</li>
        <li><code>pullrequest:changes_request_removed</code>: deletion of pull requests change request</li>

>         <li><code>repo:push</code>: pushes of commits to a repository</li>

Reviewer 3: This event is trigger with pushing branches, commits, tags to a repository, but we only care about tags. Not sure if that is worth mentioning.

Reviewer 2: Note to self: consider editing as below.

```suggestion
        <li><code>repo:push</code>: pushes of commits, branches, or tags to a repository</li>
```

    -   [See below](#bb-permissions) the permissions that Pulse requires from your Bitbucket account.  

To set up the Bitbucket integration:

1.  On Pulse, [expand **Integrations** and select **Bitbucket**](https://app.pulse.codacy.com/integrations/bitbucket){: target="_blank"}.

1.  Click **Install Bitbucket App** and follow the instructions on the Bitbucket UI to install the app on your account.

    ![Installing the Pulse Bitbucket App](images/bb-installing.png)

1.  Wait until you get a confirmation that Pulse successfully connected the integration to Bitbucket.

    ![Pulse Bitbucket integration set up successfully](images/bb-ok.png)

    If there was an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).

1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration to. You can only select a workspace where you have owner permissions.

    ![Choosing the Bitbucket workspace](images/bb-workspace.png)

1.  Click **Complete setup**.

    If there is an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).

## Automatic deployment detection using merged pull requests {: id="deployment-detection-merged-pr"}

> !!! note
>     <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->Pulse uses your merged pull requests to automatically detect your deployments. Other strategies to detect deployments will be available with a future version of Pulse.
> 
> -   Pulse considers a deployment every merged pull request that **targets the default branch** of the repository.
> -   The deployment date is the timestamp when the corresponding pull request is merged.
> -   The set of changes in a deployment is the list of commits in the corresponding pull request.
> -   Pulse associates all the Bitbucket user groups of the author of a merged pull request with the corresponding deployment, excluding the user groups with less than two members. Pulse only takes the changes to Bitbucket user groups into account on pull requests merged after those changes.
> 
> !!! note
>     <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->If you use a [squash merge strategy](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies) when merging the pull request, Pulse may produce inaccurate accelerate metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! note
    -   <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->Pulse uses your merged pull requests to automatically detect your deployments. Other strategies to detect deployments will be available with a future version of Pulse.
    -   <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->If you use a [squash merge strategy](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies) when merging the pull request, Pulse may produce inaccurate accelerate metrics.

-   Pulse considers a deployment every merged pull request that **targets the default branch** of the repository.
-   The deployment date is the timestamp when the corresponding pull request is merged.
-   The set of changes in a deployment is the list of commits in the corresponding pull request.
-   Pulse associates all the Bitbucket user groups of the author of a merged pull request with the corresponding deployment, excluding the user groups with less than two members. Pulse only takes the changes to Bitbucket user groups into account on pull requests merged after those changes.
```

>     <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->If you use a [merge commit or a squash merge strategy](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies) when merging the pull request, Pulse may produce inaccurate accelerate metrics.

Reviewer 3: @nicklem It's fixed for V1 -- https://codacy.atlassian.net/browse/PUL-1526

> !!! note
>     <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->If you use a [merge commit or a squash merge strategy](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies) when merging the pull request, Pulse may produce inaccurate accelerate metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! note
    <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-V2-->If you use a [squash merge strategy](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies) when merging the pull request, Pulse may produce inaccurate accelerate metrics.
```

# Bitbucket integration

!!! note

>     (CUSTOMER FACING MESSAGE NEEDED) We have launched Bitbucket integration to receive your feedback. Some metrics are not available yet.

Reviewer 4: I think a message like this could work well! :) I'd only tweak the tone a bit to sound more friendly, for example, "Pulse's Bitbucket integration is new and still in beta, therefore some metrics may not be available just yet. If you'd like to know more about what's coming next, feel free to contact us" <- not sure if here we can use this to open the intercom directly for example 💭 tweak it as you think it's best 🙏 !

>     (CUSTOMER FACING MESSAGE NEEDED) We have launched Bitbucket integration to receive your feedback. Some metrics are not available yet.

Reviewer 5: 1. we can link to the Accelerate metrics mentioned they will be the ones supported
2. highlight that historical import won't be available
2. highlight that Deployments will only be detected thought pull requests

"Pulse's Bitbucket integration is new and still in Beta. For now, only the [Accelerate metrics] are available, with Deployments only being detected from Pull requests.
If at first you don't see any data, don't worry. At the moment, we're only collecting new data, but we'll automatically import historical data and backfill your charts within a few weeks."

>     (CUSTOMER FACING MESSAGE NEEDED) We have launched Bitbucket integration to receive your feedback. Some metrics are not available yet.

Author: I updated the message based on your feedback. 👍 
I didn't include the "feel free to contact us" link for now. Let me know if you still want to include this link and what is the target url.

> Pulse integrates with Bitbucket Cloud to receive data about changes and deployments, necessary to calculate the metrics:

Author: @mrfyda Does Pulse integrate with Bitbucket Cloud only? Or also with Bitbucket Server?

> -   [Lead time for changes](../metrics/accelerate.md#lead-time-for-changes)

Author: For V1, we’ll only calculate the following accelerate metrics in real time:

- Deployment frequency
- Lead time for changes

All the remaining metrics will be delivered for V3:

- Changes metrics (Time to open, Time to merge)
-  Reviews metrics (Time to first review, Time to first approval, Time from first to last approval, Time from last approval to merge, Outlier review details)
- Work in progress

@mrfyda Can you please confirm?

Reviewer 4: that's right clau! :)

-   [Deployment frequency](../metrics/accelerate.md#deployment-frequency)

## Setting up the Bitbucket integration

!!! note
    -   The Bitbucket integration connects to a specific [workspace](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/what-is-a-workspace/). You must be the **owner** of that Bitbucket workspace to proceed with the integration setup.
    -   [See below](#bb-permissions) the permissions that Pulse requires from your Bitbucket account.  

To set up the Bitbucket integration:

1.  On Pulse, [expand **Integrations** and select **Bitbucket**](https://app.pulse.codacy.com/integrations/bitbucket){: target="_blank"}.

> 1.  Click **Install Bitbucket App** and follow the instructions on the Bitbucket UI to install the app on your account.

Author: @afsmeira The Pulse Bitbucket App is installed in a Bitbucket account? (because we only ask for the workspace after the Bitbucket App is installed, right?...)

Reviewer 5: yes, it's associated with a BB user account
it gives access to what the person sees and to impersonate them in Bitbucket

that means we'll only be able to see the workspaces they have access to, and within the workspace only have visibility over what they can already see in BB
for that reason, we're only allowing users to integrate with workspaces they have Admin rights over (and therefore have complete visibility over)

    (IMAGE)

> 1.  Wait until you get a confirmation that Pulse successfully created the integration and the webhook on Bitbucket.

Author: Thanks! I removed the webhook and tweaked the message according to the UI.

>             

Reviewer: I think it's the first time I see a suggestion from Codacy to fix a Markdown issue. :nerd_face:

    (IMAGE)

    If there was an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).

1.  Choose the workspace that you want to connect the integration. You will only be able to select a workspace that you are the owner.

    (IMAGE)

    If there was an error please [contact support](mailto:pulsesupport@codacy.com).

1.  Click **Complete setup**.

## Automatic deployment detection using merged pull requests {: id="deployment-detection-merged-pr"}

!!! note

>     Pulse will use your merged pull requests to automatically detect your deployments. Other strategies to detect deployments will be available with a future version of Pulse.

Reviewer: I see that we're mentioning the initial limitations of the Bitbucket integration in quite a few places. I suggest using a comment as a small trick to help identify these places, so it's easier to find them all and not miss any when it's time to remove them:

```suggestion
    <!--NOTE Limitation from Bitbucket integration V1-->Pulse will use your merged pull requests to automatically detect your deployments. Other strategies to detect deployments will be available with a future version of Pulse.
```

-   Pulse considers a deployment every merged pull request that **targets the default branch** of the repository.
-   The deployment date is the timestamp when the corresponding pull request is merged.
-   The set of changes in a deployment is the list of commits in the corresponding pull request. Pulse correctly tracks your changes even if you [squash or fast-forward the commits when merging the pull request](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/merge-a-pull-request/#Merge-strategies), since Pulse processes all the original commits before any changes to the Git history.

> -   Pulse associates all Bitbucket teams of the author of a merged pull request with the corresponding deployment, excluding teams with less than two members. Pulse only takes changes to Bitbucket teams into account on pull requests merged after those changes.

Author: @afsmeira Can you please confirm if this information is correct for Bitbucket integration? I based on the GitHub content and did some adjustments (for example, replaced rebase with fast-forward).

Reviewer 3: It is correct 👍

> -   Pulse associates all Bitbucket teams of the author of a merged pull request with the corresponding deployment, excluding teams with less than two members. Pulse only takes changes to Bitbucket teams into account on pull requests merged after those changes.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
-   Pulse associates all Bitbucket user groups of the author of a merged pull request with the corresponding deployment, excluding user groups with less than two members. Pulse only takes changes to Bitbucket teams into account on pull requests merged after those changes.
```
I believe BB concept of teams is called user groups. @claudiacodacy can confirm that
I'm not sure which one you'd like to use here

Author: Yep, you're right. It seems that in Bitbucket you can have [2 types of accounts: Individuals and Team accounts](https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Bitbucket-questions/Difference-between-teams-and-groups/qaq-p/755346), but they use [User groups to organize members of a workspace](https://support.atlassian.com/bitbucket-cloud/docs/organize-workspace-members-into-groups/). 👍

> ## Collected data

Author: @afsmeira Can you please validate the collected data for Bitbucket integration? I based it on the GitHub content, but maybe the mapping to the Pulse data model needs some tweaks.

Reviewer 3: <img width="655" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-14 at 11 59 04" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6381457/207589842-c51c80d2-e530-4b89-bcd9-c5268ea829a9.png">

☝️ These are the permissions we request.

- **Email** - to get the email of the user doing the integration.
- **Account** (requires Email) - to list workspaces, user groups and check workspace membership.
- **Workspace membership** - I actually don't think this is required. I will investigate further.
- **Repositories** - get repository default branch, list commits.
- **Pull request** (requires repository) - list pull requests and their activity.
- **Webhooks** - to created and delete workspace webhooks.

Regarding webhooks, we subscribe to:
- Pull request events
    - Created
    - Updated
    - Fulfilled
    - Rejected
    - Approved
    - Unapproved
    - Changes request created
    - Changes request removed
- Repository events
    - Pushed reference (we're only interested tags)
    - Transfered (repository transfered to the selected workspace, so that we can start historical data import)
    - Forked (repository created in the selected workspace as a fork of another repository, so that we can start historical data import)
    
The permissions and events will be requested and subscribed to since V1 but we might not use them all in V1.

Author: Updated permissions table.

        <ul>
            <li><code>deploy_id</code>: pull request ID</li>
            <li><code>system</code>: repository name</li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>Deployment frequency and Change failure rate on the <a href="../../metrics/accelerate/">Accelerate Overview dashboard</a></td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>Teams</td>
    <td>
        <p>Deployments:</p>
        <ul>
            <li><code>teams</code>: Bitbucket teams of the author of a deployment<sup><a href="#deployment-teams">2</a></sup></li>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>Filters the <a href="../../metrics/accelerate/">Accelerate Overview dashboard</a> by the contributions made by the team</td>
</tr>
</table>

<sup><span id="commit-author-date">1</span></sup>: Pulse uses the commit author's date since it is more accurate. The committer date can be changed (e.g.: fast-forward) and stop reflecting the real creation date of the change.

<sup><span id="deployment-teams">2</span></sup>: Adding a new team or changing the composition of a team on Bitbucket only affects new data from that moment onwards and doesn't have an immediate impact on the dashboards. Also, deleted teams on Bitbucket will continue to show in Pulse.

> ## Which permissions does Pulse need from Bitbucket? {: id="bb-permissions"}

Author: @afsmeira I will complete this section with the information you'll provide in the scope of [PUL-1507](https://codacy.atlassian.net/browse/PUL-1507).
If you prefer to provide that information here instead of creating a new internal document, please go ahead. What's easier for you.

Reviewer 3: Check my comment above, I think it's all there.

Author: Thank you so much for all the details, @afsmeira . 🙏  I updated the permissions table with the provided information.
